# Environmenntal Racism and Environmental Justice
My research inquiry for this project is to what extent is environmental racism prevelant, specifically in California. With the ongoing climate disaster, it is important to think of environmental justice and equality in our communities. Low-income neighborhoods are more likely to experience higher emissions, along with more landfills and factories. These low-income neighborhoods are largely minority communities, meaning that minorities are more likely to experience negative environmental effects. This has been shown in the past in Flint, Michigan and in my home community of Los Angeles. I will be looking specifically at data by county or zip code in California. Due to the large differences in demographics within counties, it will likely be best to look at smaller units of area, such as zip code or city. Space is very important for this topic because it usually relates environmental impact of a facotry or landfill in a specific city to an impact on the residents of that city. Time is also equally important as many past environmental issues take years to be resolved. 

My first datasource is the EPA's [Green House Gas Reporting Program Data Sets](https://www.epa.gov/ghgreporting/ghg-reporting-program-data-sets). This dataset includes data for every major facility that produces emissions, along with location data and zip code. I will use the available data from California in order to see what areas have the most emissions from landfills, factories, chemicals, etc. The categories I will likely use are type of facility, amount of emissions, and location data. I will combine the data from the EPA with the Census ACS [Small Area Income and Poverty Estimates](https://www.census.gov/data/datasets/2019/demo/saipe/2019-state-and-county.html). This dataset includes poverty rates and income data for each county in the US, of which I will only use CA. This will helpful to show on a larger scale which counties are the wealthiest and which have the most emission production. I would like to do more thorough analysis of smaller units of area, like cities or zip code, and into the demographics of these counties. I will need to find more data to look at some specific areas within California that have both high poverty rates and high emissions. I plan to create visualizations comparing the emissions, income, and demographics of key areas. Additionally, I will create maps that show both median income or poverty rates, along with plots of facilities and their emissions.

Through this research, I would hope to prove the existence and prevelance of environmental racism in low-income communities and communities of color. Through analysis of demographic data, I expect to find that disadvantaged communities are more likely to experience consequneces due to facilities such as waste management and manufacturing. I expect to first show a connection between below average income and minority communities. Assuming this link is established, I would then expect to find through EPA data and other sources that these communities do in fact have more undesirable facilities. I do expect to have results supporting the existence of environmental racism/inequality, but it will be interesting to see how the results vary across densely-populated areas like Los Angeles and more rural areas of California.
